docs/manifest/examples.mdx, before:

---
id: manifest-examples
title: Manifest examples
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';

## C2PA test files

The C2PA [public-testfiles](https://github.com/c2pa-org/public-testfiles) repository contains numerous examples of asset files with Content Credentials. This repository is currently being updated.

<!--
See https://spec.c2pa.org/public-testfiles/ for links to easily inspect each asset file using Verify using [an asset URL](../verify.mdx#using-an-asset-url) and to the corresponding [manifest report](../c2patool/docs/usage.md#displaying-manifest-data) and [detailed manifest report](../c2patool/docs/usage.md#detailed-manifest-report) from C2PA Tool.

:::note
The claims on these test files were signed with C2PA Tool's built-in test certificate and key (which is not on the [known certificate list](../trust-list.mdx)). Thus, Verify will display the warning: "The Content Credential issuer couldn’t be recognized. This file may not come from where it claims to."
:::

-->

## Examples from C2PA Tool

The command-line [C2PA Tool](../c2patool/readme.md), `c2patool`, is helpful when developing applications to work with manifest data. When saving a manifest, it has two modes:

- **Standard mode** (the default), where it saves a manifest file in JSON format, which is simplified and slightly different from the underlying binary manifest structure.
- **Detailed mode** (specified with the `-d` option), where it saves a file that more closely reflects the actual structure of the binary data, including assertions with JUMBF URLs and their associated hashes.

### Simple manifest

This manifest was saved using `c2patool` with no options.

import SimpleManifestEx from '!!raw-loader!./simple-manifest-ex.json.jsx';

<CodeBlock language="json" showLineNumbers>
  {SimpleManifestEx}
</CodeBlock>

### Detailed manifest

import DetailedManifestEx from '!!raw-loader!./detailed-manifest-ex.json.jsx';

This manifest was saved using `c2patool` with the `-d` option. Even though it was generated for the same asset and Content Credentials as the simple manifest example, you can see that it's about twice as long.

<CodeBlock language="json" showLineNumbers>
  {DetailedManifestEx}
</CodeBlock>

Commit message:

Add getting-started dir, fix all links, etc

docs/manifest/examples.mdx, after:

---
id: manifest-examples
title: Manifest examples
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';

### Example assets

The [example-assets](https://contentauth.github.io/example-assets/) repository contains some sample assets that demonstrate Content Credentials, including links to view the corresponding manifest reports from the [C2PA Tool](../c2patool/readme.md) and to inspect the assets using Verify. See [the README as rendered in GitHub Pages](https://contentauth.github.io/example-assets/).

## Examples from C2PA Tool

The command-line [C2PA Tool](../c2patool/readme.md), `c2patool`, is helpful when developing applications to work with manifest data. When saving a manifest, it has two modes:

- **Standard mode** (the default), where it saves a manifest file in JSON format, which is simplified and slightly different from the underlying binary manifest structure.
- **Detailed mode** (specified with the `-d` option), where it saves a file that more closely reflects the actual structure of the binary data, including assertions with JUMBF URLs and their associated hashes.

### Simple manifest

This manifest was saved using `c2patool` with no options.

import SimpleManifestEx from '!!raw-loader!./simple-manifest-ex.json.jsx';

<CodeBlock language="json" showLineNumbers>
  {SimpleManifestEx}
</CodeBlock>

### Detailed manifest

import DetailedManifestEx from '!!raw-loader!./detailed-manifest-ex.json.jsx';

This manifest was saved using `c2patool` with the `-d` option. Even though it was generated for the same asset and Content Credentials as the simple manifest example, you can see that it's about twice as long.

<CodeBlock language="json" showLineNumbers>
  {DetailedManifestEx}
</CodeBlock>
