docs/guides/signing.md, before:

# Signing

## Overview

Signing C2PA manifests requires an end-entity certificate that complies with the [C2PA Trust Model](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.1/specs/C2PA_Specification.html#_trust_model). C2PA follows the Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) using your private key and public certificates in the signing process. Best practices around the handling of keys and certificates are available from many sources and not directly covered here. Private keys should be protected with the highest level of security.

The open source [c2patool](/docs/c2patool) and [Rust SDK](/docs/rust-sdk) support signing with the following signature types:

- ES256 (ECDSA with SHA-256)
- ES384 (ECDSA with SHA-384)
- ES512 (ECDSA with SHA-512)
- PS256 (RSASSA-PSS using SHA-256 and MGF1 with SHA-256)
- PS384 (RSASSA-PSS using SHA-384 and MGF1 with SHA-384)
- PS512 (RSASSA-PSS using SHA-512 and MGF1 with SHA-512)
- EdDSA (Edwards-Curve DSA)
  - Ed25519 instance only. No other EdDSA instances are allowed.

You must supply credentials (certificates and keys) that correspond to your desired signing algorithm. Signing/Validation will fail if the signature type is not supported by the supplied credentials. Here is a condensed summary of important credential information provided in the [Trust Model section](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.1/specs/C2PA_Specification.html#_trust_model) of the C2PA specification. See the [spec](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.1/specs/C2PA_Specification.html) for complete details.

- Certificate must follow the X509 V3 specification
- Certificate's `signatureAlgorithm` must be one of:
  - `ecdsa-with-SHA256` ([RFC 5758 section 3.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5758#section-3.2))
  - `ecdsa-with-SHA384` ([RFC 5758 section 3.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5758#section-3.2))
  - `ecdsa-with-SHA512` ([RFC 5758 section 3.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5758#section-3.2))
  - `sha256WithRSAEncryption` ([RFC 8017 appendix A.2.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8017#appendix-A.2.4))
  - `sha384WithRSAEncryption` ([RFC 8017 appendix A.2.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8017#appendix-A.2.4))
  - `sha512WithRSAEncryption` ([RFC 8017 appendix A.2.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8017#appendix-A.2.4))
  - `id-RSASSA-PSS` ([RFC 8017 appendix A.2.3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8017#appendix-A.2.3))
  - `id-Ed25519` ([RFC 8410 section 3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8410#section-3))
- The Key Usage (KU) extension must be present and should be marked as critical. Certificates used to sign C2PA manifests must assert the `digitalSignature` bit.
- The Extended Key Usage (EKU) extension must be present and non-empty in any certificate where the Basic Constraints extension is absent or the CA boolean is not asserted.
  - The `anyExtendedKeyUsageEKU` (2.5.29.37.0) must not be present.
  - If the configuration store does not contain a list of EKUs, a certificate that signs C2PA manifests must be valid for the `id-kp-emailProtection` (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.4) purpose.
  - The `id-kp-emailProtection` purpose is not implicitly included by default if a list of EKUs has been configured. If desired, it must explicitly be added to the list in the configuration store.



### Recommended signature type by signatureAlgorithm
| signatureAlgorithm | Recommended Signature type |
|--------------------|:----------------------------:|
| `ecdsa-with-SHA256` | ES256                      |
| `ecdsa-with-SHA384` | ES384                      | 
| `ecdsa-with-SHA512` | ES512                      |
| `sha256WithRSAEncryption` | PS256                 |
| `sha256WithRSAEncryption` | PS384|
| `sha256WithRSAEncryption` | PS512|
| `id-RSASSA-PSS` ASN1 OID: prime256v1, NIST CURVE: P-256 | ES256|
| `id-RSASSA-PSS` ASN1 OID: secp384r1 | ES384|
| `id-RSASSA-PSS` ASN1 OID: secp521r1 | ES512|
| `id-Ed2551` Ed25519 | Ed25519|



Trust lists are used to connect the end-entity certificate that signed a manifest back to the originating root CA. This is accomplished by supplying the subordinate public X509 certificates forming the trust chain (the public X509 certificate chain). If those are not supplied a private credential store may be used to validate the certificate trust chain. If you do not supply a certificate chain or trust list, validators may reject the manifest. See C2PA specification for more details.
 
Two other certificates are supported in the C2PA spec for timestamp responses and OCSP certificate revocation. Neither of those are covered here.

## Example credential generation

We will use [GlobalSign](http://globalsign.com/) to show how a user might generate a C2PA compliant set of credentials.

:::note
Credential management is a complex topic and different for every organization so use this tutorial only as a demonstration of how C2PA operates. Other certificate providers may have alternate ways of providing your private key and certificate.
:::note

### Step 1: Purchase compliant credentials

For this example, we used the [PersonSign1](https://shop.globalsign.com/en/secure-email) certificate. This certificate contains KU and EKU values that are compliant with C2PA manifest signing. Follow the instructions to purchase and download your .pfx file. This file is a PKCS12 container that holds your certificate chain and private signing key. Note: other certificate vendors may include only the end-entity certificate and you must manually download the rest of the certificate chain.

### Step 2: Extract the certificate and key using OpenSSL

Here are the commands we used (enter the password used to generate the .pfx if prompted):

:::tip
Please make sure you are using a recent version of OpenSSL.
:::tip

#### Extract the key:

```shell
openssl pkcs12 -in mycertfile.pfx -nocerts -out mykey.pem -nodes
```

#### Extract the certificate chain:
For many certificate providers the pfx contains not just your certificate but the complete certificate trust chain.  When the pfx does not contain the certificate chain it can be obtained from your provider. 

```shell
openssl pkcs12 -in mycertfile.pfx -nokeys -out mycerts.pem
```

:::note
You may see errors reported by OpenSSL. If the output file is generated, you can ignore the messages. If you see an error like:

```
Shrouded Keybag: pbeWithSHA1And3- KeyTripleDES-CBC, Iteration 2000
PKCS7 Encrypted data: pbeWithSHA1And40BitRC2- CBC, Iteration 2000
Error outputting keys and certificates
```

it means the .pfx was encrypted with an older standard. You can work around this by adding `-legacy` to the command line.
:::note

## Using credentials with c2patool

To use the credentials extracted above you must know the signature types they support. Typically, this information is available from your certificate provider but if it is not, you can use OpenSSL to dump certificate information like this:

```shell
openssl x509 -inform PEM -in mycerts.pem -text
```

That will produce a text summary (shown below) of the certificate properties. Look for a line containing `Signature Algorithm`. For a GlobalSign issued certificate, it would contain: `Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption`. This corresponds to the PS256 signature type (see table above), so that is what we will use for c2patool.

```
Certificate:
	Data:
		Version: 3 (0x2)
		Serial Number:
				73:0d:01:c3:04:06:62:e4:60:0a:0b:0c
		Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
		Issuer: C = BE, O = GlobalSign nv-sa, CN = GlobalSign GCC R3 PersonalSign 1 CA 2020
		Validity
				Not Before: Oct 13 13:33:02 2022 GMT
				Not After : Oct 14 13:33:02 2023 GMT
		Subject: CN = someuser@someemail.com, emailAddress = someuser@someemail.com
		Subject Public Key Info:
				Public Key Algorithm: rsaEncryption
						Public-Key: (2048 bit)
.
.
.
```

We now have all the needed information to configure c2patool for manifest signing. Edit your [manifest definition file](https://github.com/contentauth/c2patool#manifest-definition-file) to have the following content:

```json
"alg": "ps256",
"private_key": "mykey.pem",
"sign_cert": "mycerts.pem"
```

:::note
The `private_key` and `sign_cert` parameters should be full paths to the key and certificate chain files generated above.
:::note

You can now use c2patool to add a manifest as described in the cp2tool documentation. The command will be something like this:

```
c2patool -m myconfig.json -o destination.jpg source.jpg
```

The example above uses the information in `myconfig.json` to add a new manifest to output `destination.jpg` using source `source.jpg`. The manifest will be signed using the PS256 signature algorithm with private key `mykey.pem`. The manifest will contain the trust chain specified in `mycerts.pem`.

Commit message:

Add note about OpenSSL installation

docs/guides/signing.md, after:

# Signing

## Overview

Signing C2PA manifests requires an end-entity certificate that complies with the [C2PA Trust Model](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.1/specs/C2PA_Specification.html#_trust_model). C2PA follows the Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) using your private key and public certificates in the signing process. Best practices around the handling of keys and certificates are available from many sources and not directly covered here. Private keys should be protected with the highest level of security.

The open source [c2patool](/docs/c2patool) and [Rust SDK](/docs/rust-sdk) support signing with the following signature types:

- ES256 (ECDSA with SHA-256)
- ES384 (ECDSA with SHA-384)
- ES512 (ECDSA with SHA-512)
- PS256 (RSASSA-PSS using SHA-256 and MGF1 with SHA-256)
- PS384 (RSASSA-PSS using SHA-384 and MGF1 with SHA-384)
- PS512 (RSASSA-PSS using SHA-512 and MGF1 with SHA-512)
- EdDSA (Edwards-Curve DSA)
  - Ed25519 instance only. No other EdDSA instances are allowed.

You must supply credentials (certificates and keys) that correspond to your desired signing algorithm. Signing/Validation will fail if the signature type is not supported by the supplied credentials. Here is a condensed summary of important credential information provided in the [Trust Model section](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.1/specs/C2PA_Specification.html#_trust_model) of the C2PA specification. See the [spec](https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/1.1/specs/C2PA_Specification.html) for complete details.

- Certificate must follow the X509 V3 specification
- Certificate's `signatureAlgorithm` must be one of:
  - `ecdsa-with-SHA256` ([RFC 5758 section 3.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5758#section-3.2))
  - `ecdsa-with-SHA384` ([RFC 5758 section 3.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5758#section-3.2))
  - `ecdsa-with-SHA512` ([RFC 5758 section 3.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5758#section-3.2))
  - `sha256WithRSAEncryption` ([RFC 8017 appendix A.2.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8017#appendix-A.2.4))
  - `sha384WithRSAEncryption` ([RFC 8017 appendix A.2.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8017#appendix-A.2.4))
  - `sha512WithRSAEncryption` ([RFC 8017 appendix A.2.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8017#appendix-A.2.4))
  - `id-RSASSA-PSS` ([RFC 8017 appendix A.2.3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8017#appendix-A.2.3))
  - `id-Ed25519` ([RFC 8410 section 3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8410#section-3))
- The Key Usage (KU) extension must be present and should be marked as critical. Certificates used to sign C2PA manifests must assert the `digitalSignature` bit.
- The Extended Key Usage (EKU) extension must be present and non-empty in any certificate where the Basic Constraints extension is absent or the CA boolean is not asserted.
  - The `anyExtendedKeyUsageEKU` (2.5.29.37.0) must not be present.
  - If the configuration store does not contain a list of EKUs, a certificate that signs C2PA manifests must be valid for the `id-kp-emailProtection` (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.4) purpose.
  - The `id-kp-emailProtection` purpose is not implicitly included by default if a list of EKUs has been configured. If desired, it must explicitly be added to the list in the configuration store.



### Recommended signature type by signatureAlgorithm
| signatureAlgorithm | Recommended Signature type |
|--------------------|:----------------------------:|
| `ecdsa-with-SHA256` | ES256                      |
| `ecdsa-with-SHA384` | ES384                      | 
| `ecdsa-with-SHA512` | ES512                      |
| `sha256WithRSAEncryption` | PS256                 |
| `sha256WithRSAEncryption` | PS384|
| `sha256WithRSAEncryption` | PS512|
| `id-RSASSA-PSS` ASN1 OID: prime256v1, NIST CURVE: P-256 | ES256|
| `id-RSASSA-PSS` ASN1 OID: secp384r1 | ES384|
| `id-RSASSA-PSS` ASN1 OID: secp521r1 | ES512|
| `id-Ed2551` Ed25519 | Ed25519|



Trust lists are used to connect the end-entity certificate that signed a manifest back to the originating root CA. This is accomplished by supplying the subordinate public X509 certificates forming the trust chain (the public X509 certificate chain). If those are not supplied a private credential store may be used to validate the certificate trust chain. If you do not supply a certificate chain or trust list, validators may reject the manifest. See C2PA specification for more details.
 
Two other certificates are supported in the C2PA spec for timestamp responses and OCSP certificate revocation. Neither of those are covered here.

## Example credential generation

We will use [GlobalSign](http://globalsign.com/) to show how a user might generate a C2PA compliant set of credentials.

:::note
Credential management is a complex topic and different for every organization so use this tutorial only as a demonstration of how C2PA operates. Other certificate providers may have alternate ways of providing your private key and certificate.
:::note

### Step 1: Purchase compliant credentials

For this example, we used the [PersonSign1](https://shop.globalsign.com/en/secure-email) certificate. This certificate contains KU and EKU values that are compliant with C2PA manifest signing. Follow the instructions to purchase and download your .pfx file. This file is a PKCS12 container that holds your certificate chain and private signing key. Note: other certificate vendors may include only the end-entity certificate and you must manually download the rest of the certificate chain.  We use OpenSSL (a set of cryptographic utilities) for the rest of this tutorial.  If OpenSSL is not installed on your system a quick web search will yield instructions for your specific installation.

### Step 2: Extract the certificate and key using OpenSSL

Here are the commands we used (enter the password used to generate the .pfx if prompted):

:::tip
Please make sure you are using a recent version of OpenSSL.
:::tip

#### Extract the key:

```shell
openssl pkcs12 -in mycertfile.pfx -nocerts -out mykey.pem -nodes
```

#### Extract the certificate chain:
For many certificate providers the pfx contains not just your certificate but the complete certificate trust chain.  When the pfx does not contain the certificate chain it can be obtained from your provider. 

```shell
openssl pkcs12 -in mycertfile.pfx -nokeys -out mycerts.pem
```

:::note
You may see errors reported by OpenSSL. If the output file is generated, you can ignore the messages. If you see an error like:

```
Shrouded Keybag: pbeWithSHA1And3- KeyTripleDES-CBC, Iteration 2000
PKCS7 Encrypted data: pbeWithSHA1And40BitRC2- CBC, Iteration 2000
Error outputting keys and certificates
```

it means the .pfx was encrypted with an older standard. You can work around this by adding `-legacy` to the command line.
:::note

## Using credentials with c2patool

To use the credentials extracted above you must know the signature types they support. Typically, this information is available from your certificate provider but if it is not, you can use OpenSSL to dump certificate information like this:

```shell
openssl x509 -inform PEM -in mycerts.pem -text
```

That will produce a text summary (shown below) of the certificate properties. Look for a line containing `Signature Algorithm`. For a GlobalSign issued certificate, it would contain: `Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption`. This corresponds to the PS256 signature type (see table above), so that is what we will use for c2patool.

```
Certificate:
	Data:
		Version: 3 (0x2)
		Serial Number:
				73:0d:01:c3:04:06:62:e4:60:0a:0b:0c
		Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
		Issuer: C = BE, O = GlobalSign nv-sa, CN = GlobalSign GCC R3 PersonalSign 1 CA 2020
		Validity
				Not Before: Oct 13 13:33:02 2022 GMT
				Not After : Oct 14 13:33:02 2023 GMT
		Subject: CN = someuser@someemail.com, emailAddress = someuser@someemail.com
		Subject Public Key Info:
				Public Key Algorithm: rsaEncryption
						Public-Key: (2048 bit)
.
.
.
```

We now have all the needed information to configure c2patool for manifest signing. Edit your [manifest definition file](https://github.com/contentauth/c2patool#manifest-definition-file) to have the following content:

```json
"alg": "ps256",
"private_key": "mykey.pem",
"sign_cert": "mycerts.pem"
```

:::note
The `private_key` and `sign_cert` parameters should be full paths to the key and certificate chain files generated above.
:::note

You can now use c2patool to add a manifest as described in the cp2tool documentation. The command will be something like this:

```
c2patool -m myconfig.json -o destination.jpg source.jpg
```

The example above uses the information in `myconfig.json` to add a new manifest to output `destination.jpg` using source `source.jpg`. The manifest will be signed using the PS256 signature algorithm with private key `mykey.pem`. The manifest will contain the trust chain specified in `mycerts.pem`.
