docs/tasks/js/_js-build.md, before:

Notes:
- You provide the `Signer`. In production, this object wraps a service/HSM that returns a proper signature for your algorithm (`es256`, `ps256`, `ed25519`, etc.). Set `reserveSize` to a value large enough for timestamps/countersignatures your signer adds.
- To attach a remote manifest instead of embedding, use `builder.setRemoteUrl(url)` and `builder.setNoEmbed(true)` before signing.

```js
import { createC2pa, type Signer } from '@contentauth/c2pa-web';
import wasmSrc from '@contentauth/c2pa-web/resources/c2pa.wasm?url';

// 1) Create a Signer that calls your backend (which returns the signature bytes)
function createRemoteSigner(): Signer {
  return {
    alg: 'es256',
    reserveSize: async () => 4096, // bytes to reserve for TSA/countersignature (tune as needed)
    sign: async (toBeSigned: Uint8Array, _reserveSize: number) => {
      const res = await fetch('/api/sign', {
        method: 'POST',
        headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' },
        body: JSON.stringify({
          alg: 'es256',
          payload: Array.from(toBeSigned),
        }),
      });
      if (!res.ok) throw new Error('Signing failed');
      const sigBytes = new Uint8Array(await res.arrayBuffer());
      return sigBytes;
    },
  };
}

async function run() {
  // 2) Initialize the SDK
  const c2pa = await createC2pa({ wasmSrc });

  // 3) Fetch the asset to sign
  const imgUrl = 'https://contentauth.github.io/example-assets/images/cloudscape-ACA-Cr.jpeg';
  const resp = await fetch(imgUrl);
  const assetBlob = await resp.blob();

  // 4) Build a simple manifest (add a created action and optional thumbnail)
  const builder = await c2pa.builder.new();
  await builder.addAction({
    action: 'c2pa.created',
    digitalSourceType: 'http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/digitalsourcetype/digitalCapture',
  });
  // Optional: include a thumbnail that represents the asset
  await builder.setThumbnailFromBlob('image/jpeg', assetBlob);

  // 5) Sign and get a new asset with the manifest embedded
  const signer = createRemoteSigner();
  const signedBytes = await builder.sign(signer, assetBlob.type, assetBlob);

  // 6) Use/save the signed asset
  const signedBlob = new Blob([signedBytes], { type: assetBlob.type });
  const url = URL.createObjectURL(signedBlob);
  // e.g., download
  const a = document.createElement('a');
  a.href = url;
  a.download = 'signed.jpg';
  a.click();
  URL.revokeObjectURL(url);

  // Cleanup
  await builder.free();
  c2pa.dispose();
}

run().catch(console.error);
```

To retrieve manifest bytes alongside the signed asset:

```js
const { asset, manifest } = await builder.signAndGetManifestBytes(
  signer,
  assetBlob.type,
  assetBlob
);
// asset -> signed asset bytes
// manifest -> embedded manifest bytes
```

Commit message:

Add more intro/context to JS builder example

docs/tasks/js/_js-build.md, after:

Using client-side JavaScript, you can:
- Create and compose manifests using the JavaScript library manifest `builder` API.
- Perform signing in the browser if you have a private key available to the client (using WebCrypto, an imported key, or an ephemeral/test key). The web library provides a `Signer` interface you can implement to call into whatever signing capability you have in the browser.
- Produce a manifest store or sidecar (`.c2pa`) file entirely in the browser (so you can download a signed sidecar next to the asset). 

Signing Content Credentials requires an end-entity X.509 certificate that fits the C2PA trust model to produce publicly verifiable signatures. Getting and protecting that certificate/private key in a browser is risky and should not be done in production. 

::: warning
Never put production private keys into client code!
:::

Embedding into binaries: While you can build and sign manifests client-side, embedding a signed manifest properly into binary file formats (JPEG/PNG/MP4, etc.) is functionality that server-side libraries (Node.js, Python, C/C++, and Rust) explicitly provide. 

Security & auditability: Browser-stored keys (or keys entered by users) are exposed to theft, malware, or cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks. For production signing, best practice is to use a remote signer (KMS/HSM) or server-side signing where keys are protected and signing operations are auditable.

```js
import { createC2pa, type Signer } from '@contentauth/c2pa-web';
import wasmSrc from '@contentauth/c2pa-web/resources/c2pa.wasm?url';

// 1) Create a Signer that calls your backend (which returns the signature bytes)
function createRemoteSigner(): Signer {
  return {
    alg: 'es256',
    reserveSize: async () => 4096, // bytes to reserve for TSA/countersignature (tune as needed)
    sign: async (toBeSigned: Uint8Array, _reserveSize: number) => {
      const res = await fetch('/api/sign', {
        method: 'POST',
        headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' },
        body: JSON.stringify({
          alg: 'es256',
          payload: Array.from(toBeSigned),
        }),
      });
      if (!res.ok) throw new Error('Signing failed');
      const sigBytes = new Uint8Array(await res.arrayBuffer());
      return sigBytes;
    },
  };
}

async function run() {
  // 2) Initialize the SDK
  const c2pa = await createC2pa({ wasmSrc });

  // 3) Fetch the asset to sign
  const imgUrl = 'https://contentauth.github.io/example-assets/images/cloudscape-ACA-Cr.jpeg';
  const resp = await fetch(imgUrl);
  const assetBlob = await resp.blob();

  // 4) Build a simple manifest (add a created action and optional thumbnail)
  const builder = await c2pa.builder.new();
  await builder.addAction({
    action: 'c2pa.created',
    digitalSourceType: 'http://cv.iptc.org/newscodes/digitalsourcetype/digitalCapture',
  });
  // Optional: include a thumbnail that represents the asset
  await builder.setThumbnailFromBlob('image/jpeg', assetBlob);

  // 5) Sign and get a new asset with the manifest embedded
  const signer = createRemoteSigner();
  const signedBytes = await builder.sign(signer, assetBlob.type, assetBlob);

  // 6) Use/save the signed asset
  const signedBlob = new Blob([signedBytes], { type: assetBlob.type });
  const url = URL.createObjectURL(signedBlob);
  // e.g., download
  const a = document.createElement('a');
  a.href = url;
  a.download = 'signed.jpg';
  a.click();
  URL.revokeObjectURL(url);

  // Cleanup
  await builder.free();
  c2pa.dispose();
}

run().catch(console.error);
```

To retrieve manifest bytes alongside the signed asset:

```js
const { asset, manifest } = await builder.signAndGetManifestBytes(
  signer,
  assetBlob.type,
  assetBlob
);
// asset -> signed asset bytes
// manifest -> embedded manifest bytes
```

Notes:
- You provide the `Signer` used in the example above. In production, this object wraps a service/HSM that returns a proper signature for your algorithm (`es256`, `ps256`, `ed25519`, etc.). Set `reserveSize` to a value large enough for timestamps/countersignatures your signer adds.
- To attach a remote manifest instead of embedding, use `builder.setRemoteUrl(url)` and `builder.setNoEmbed(true)` before signing.
